No art form has strictly defined limits. At what point, for example, does prose become poetry? Passages from novels have been included in anthologies of poetry. It seems that Irish novelists and playwrights are considered “poetic” if they merely capture the rhythms and colorful imagery of their everyday speech. At the other extreme, the abstract poetry of Hugo Ball, Raoul Hausmann, and Kurt Schwitters, among others, moves toward music in its use of sound without meaning. Schwitters’ *Ursonata* actually was written in sonata form. Many essentially two-dimensional canvases abjure the traditional rectangular format; other shaped canvases protrude to varying degrees into the space of the room. Countless examples of this kind of art-works that extend the definition of an art form to its limits or combine the characteristics of two or more forms-could be given. Taken as a whole, they represent one of the dominant trends in avant-garde art.

This does not mean, however, that the traditional definitions of the various art forms are no longer useful or significant. Definitions properly exist as norms rather than absolute restrictions. This is the way they exist in everyday speech. If I say “painting” or “sculpture” or “performance,” you know what I mean. The terms act as a measure of central tendency rather than as strict and pedantic limitations. It is pointless, therefore, to invent a new term unless a work does not, *in general*, fit in an existing category. The traditional words will suffice. There is no need, for example, to claim that “mixed media” performances are a new art form when, since they are done for an audience, they can easily be seen as a kind of theatre. (Actually we can frequently be even more exact in this case: Drama, dance and opera-all forms of theatre-make use of mixed media.) Useful adjectives should not be confused with the nouns naming the art. This does not mean that new terms cannot be coined, but new terminology is not needed unless it increases the precision of the communication and actually indicates a significant difference from traditionally defined forms.

We have all heard so many fanciful, extravagant, and unfounded claims of “new” developments in art that we tend to dismiss such statements as immature and intellectually unrewarding. It is so obvious that new names are sometimes coined merely in an attempt to attract attention and to indicate or create originality where none exists. When we view designations as referring to central tendency, it is possible to believe that, theoretically, no new art form could exist: Styles, modes, manners, and materials of art may change, the reasoning would run, but there can be no new form such as music, sculpture, or theatre, which already include every sensory possibility.

<br>

It is with all seriousness, then, and, I believe, with awareness of the implications, that I suggest that an entirely new form of art has recently been developed. I propose that the distinguishing characteristics of this form are basically so completely different from all traditional categories as to require a special name ad that the nature and implications of this new form are of theoretical and practical importance. 

There is a subjective aspect to all art. Art exists, at least in part, in our personal experience of the work. But in all traditional art, the work-the thing that gives the art its objective reality-is available to everyone. Experiences of a work may differ, and spectators at a performance necessarily view it from different distances and angles, for example, but the thing is there to be perceived. In the new art form under discussion, the “thing” has moved inside the body, so to speak. The actions of the person himself become the object of his own attention. This work of art can only be seen by one person, and it can only be viewed from within. Since the object of the aesthetic experience has become the self-perceived behavior of an individual, I refer to the form as “Activities”: One performs “an Activity.” (As with the form of theatre called “Happenings” I use an initial capital. Any happening is not a Happening, nor any activity an Activity.)

The origins of the activity can be traced at least as far back as postwar Dada. One of Max Ernst’s contributions to the infamous 1920 Dada exhibition in Cologne was a wooden object to which a hatchet was attached by a chain: It seemed a demand or challenge to substitute the activity of destroying the work for aesthetic contemplation. In “The Dada Spirit in Painting,” included in *The Dada Painters and Poets* edited by Robert Motherwell, George Hugnet tells us of Jean (Hans) Arp’s *Egg Board* “with directions for use.” The “board” was apparently one of Arp”s many wooden reliefs, and the instructions for its use consisted of five “movements”:

	1. chop several eggs
	2. split some wood
	3. ring the bells
	4. masturbate
	5. throw the egg in the navel

This may have been Arp’s 1922 *Egg Board*, a painted relief of several identical human silhouettes, each with a large raised egg-shaped navel. The description implies a single, indented navel, however, and the nature of the bells remains a mystery. At any rate, that particular *Egg Board* served, in Arp’s words, as the “coat of arms” for a “game for the upper then thousand, in which the participants leave the arena covered with egg yolk from top to toe.” In this game intended to enlighten the bourgeoisie, the players were visualized “smashing eggs with the eggboard through the goal… the use of hardboiled eggs is unfair.”

The black humor of the Dadaists and their attempt to desanctify art by using everyday materials were congenial to Activities, and several contemporary examples of Activities can be found in the “newspapers” or broadsides published by Fluxus, a semiformal neo-Dada group of artists. Ben Vautier, for example, authored *Fifty-eight Propositions for One Page* (1965) in which he gave fifty-seven directions (one of his boxes is blank) for things to do with the page.
